README.md, before:

# GitRover 🛰️

**Explore Code. Understand Faster.**

A modern, minimalist, AI-powered web application for exploring GitHub repositories.

<p align="center">
  <a href="#-features">Features</a> ·
  <a href="#-tech-stack">Tech Stack</a> ·
  <a href="#-getting-started">Getting Started</a> ·
  <a href="#-license">License</a>
</p>

---

## 🚀 Features

GitRover is designed to enhance the experience of reading and understanding code on GitHub.

-   **✨ Minimalist UI**: A clean, distraction-free interface that puts the content first. Dark mode is a first-class citizen.
-   **⚡ Blazing Fast**: Built with modern tools for near-instant page loads and a fluid user experience.
-   **🤖 AI-Powered Insights**:
    -   **Summarize Repo**: Get a concise, AI-generated summary of any repository.
    -   **Explain Code**: Select any code snippet to receive a detailed explanation in plain English.
    -   **Repo Health Check**: Quickly assess a repository's documentation quality and potential red flags.
-   **📂 Advanced File Explorer**: Navigate code with a responsive file tree, branch selector, and folder size calculations.
-   **🎨 Customizable Themes**: Personalize your code-viewing experience with multiple syntax highlighting themes and color palettes.
-   **🔒 Secure & Private**: Your GitHub tokens are stored exclusively in your browser's local storage and never leave your device.

## 🛠️ Tech Stack

-   **Framework**: React (with Vite)
-   **Language**: TypeScript
-   **Styling**: Tailwind CSS
-   **API Integration**: Axios for GitHub API calls
-   **AI**: Google Gemini API via `@google/genai`
-   **Routing**: React Router
-   **UI Components**: Lucide React for icons

## 🏃 Getting Started

To get a local copy up and running, follow these simple steps.

### Prerequisites

-   Node.js (v18 or later)
-   npm or yarn

### Installation

1.  **Clone the repository:**
    ```bash
    git clone https://github.com/your-username/gitrover.git
    cd gitrover
    ```

2.  **Install dependencies:**
    ```bash
    npm install
    ```

3.  **Set up environment variables:**
    Create a `.env` file in the root of the project and add your Google Gemini API key. This app uses Vite, which exposes env variables prefixed with `VITE_`. For the Gemini SDK which expects `process.env.API_KEY`, a special configuration is included in `vite.config.ts` to define this variable.
    ```env
    # Get your key from Google AI Studio
    API_KEY="YOUR_GEMINI_API_KEY"
    ```

4.  **Run the development server:**
    ```bash
    npm run dev
    ```
    Open your browser to the local URL provided by Vite to view the application.

## 📄 License

This project is licensed under the MIT License. See the `LICENSE` file for more details.

Commit message:

feat: Add meta tags and dynamic favicon
Adds essential meta tags for SEO to the index.html file, including description, keywords, author, and theme-color. Also implements Open Graph meta tags for better social media sharing.

Updates the App.tsx component to dynamically generate and set the favicon based on the application's primary and secondary theme colors. This ensures the favicon reflects the user's chosen theme.

Introduces a new `rgbStringToHex` utility function to facilitate the conversion of RGB color strings to hexadecimal format for favicon generation.

Enhances the RepoDetailPage with SEO component, utilizing structured data for improved discoverability.

README.md, after:

# GitRover 🛰️

**Explore Code. Understand Faster.**

A modern, minimalist, AI-powered web application for exploring GitHub repositories.

<p align="center">
  <a href="#-features">Features</a> ·
  <a href="#-tech-stack">Tech Stack</a> ·
  <a href="#-getting-started">Getting Started</a> ·
  <a href="#-license">License</a>
</p>

---

## 🚀 Features

GitRover is designed to enhance the experience of reading and understanding code on GitHub.

-   **✨ Minimalist UI**: A clean, distraction-free interface that puts the content first. Dark mode is a first-class citizen.
-   **⚡ Blazing Fast**: Built with modern tools for near-instant page loads and a fluid user experience.
-   **🤖 AI-Powered Insights (Powered by Google Gemini)**:
    -   **Summarize Repo**: Get a concise, AI-generated summary of any repository.
    -   **Explain Code**: Select any code snippet to receive a detailed explanation in plain English.
    -   **Repo Health Check**: Quickly assess a repository's documentation quality and potential red flags.
    -   **AI PR Reviewer**: Get instant AI summaries of Open Pull Requests to understand the impact of changes.
-   **📂 Advanced File Explorer**: 
    -   Navigate code with a responsive file tree and branch selector.
    -   **Smart Sorting**: Sort files by Last Modified Date, Name, or Size.
    -   **Folder Size Calculation**: See the total size of directories at a glance.
-   **🎨 Customizable Themes**: Personalize your code-viewing experience with multiple color palettes and syntax highlighting themes.
-   **🔒 Secure & Private**: Your GitHub tokens are stored exclusively in your browser's local storage and never leave your device.
-   **🔖 Local Bookmarks**: Save your favorite repositories and gists locally in your browser for one-click access.
-   **📦 Gist Support**: Full support for viewing and analyzing Gists with the same powerful tools, including AI explanations.
-   **↔️ Release Comparison**: Compare version differences between any two releases to see what changed in commits and files.
-   **🌐 SEO Optimized**: Dynamic meta tags and JSON-LD structured data for rich search engine results and improved social sharing.

## 🛠️ Tech Stack

-   **Framework**: React (with Vite)
-   **Language**: TypeScript
-   **Styling**: Tailwind CSS
-   **API Integration**: Axios for GitHub API calls
-   **AI**: Google Gemini API via `@google/genai`
-   **Routing**: React Router
-   **UI Components**: Lucide React for icons

## 🏃 Getting Started

To get a local copy up and running, follow these simple steps.

### Prerequisites

-   Node.js (v18 or later)
-   npm or yarn

### Installation

1.  **Clone the repository:**
    ```bash
    git clone https://github.com/your-username/gitrover.git
    cd gitrover
    ```

2.  **Install dependencies:**
    ```bash
    npm install
    ```

3.  **Set up environment variables:**
    Create a `.env` file in the root of the project and add your Google Gemini API key. This app uses Vite, which exposes env variables prefixed with `VITE_`. For the Gemini SDK which expects `process.env.API_KEY`, a special configuration is included in `vite.config.ts` to define this variable.
    ```env
    # Get your key from Google AI Studio
    API_KEY="YOUR_GEMINI_API_KEY"
    ```

4.  **Run the development server:**
    ```bash
    npm run dev
    ```
    Open your browser to the local URL provided by Vite to view the application.

## 📄 License

This project is licensed under the MIT License. See the `LICENSE` file for more details.
